# Txt2Art
The program reads content from a plain text file and converts it to an image composed of intersecting lines (vectors). The image appears in a 640x480 window.
You must have Python installed or it will not work. Please download the latest version at www.python.org
If you don't want to install Python, you can run the executable file included in the package.
The text file must be named text.txt and placed in the same directory as the program or the program will crash. I've included a demo text file, containing the sentence "Hello World".
If you want to convert a Word file, you must save it to TXT format. If you want to use text from the web, you must open a TXT file into an editor such as Microsoft Windows Notepad and cut/paste the text from the website. The text can be up to 10000 characters long but, for best results, you should use a single word, two words (such as a name) or a short sentence. If you use a text longer than 10000 characters, the program will use only the first 10000 characters.
Once you have the text, just double click the script and you will be prompted for the number of iterations, which is how many times the designed generated by the text should be repeated. You can input any number from 1 to 100. Input 0 to quit the program. Numbers below 0 and non-numbers will default to 1, above 100 will default to 100. Pressing Enter without making a choice will also default to 1. Next you will be prompted for space between iterations, which is how many pixels the cursor should move before repeating the design. Input any number from 1 to 500. Numbers below 1 and no value will default to 1, above 500 will default to 500. The you will be prompted for direction, which is the direction the cursor should move between iterations. Input 1 for left, 2 for right. No input will default to right. Once you input all the parameters, a window will open and an image will start composing line by line. Wait for the program to complete the drawing and you will see an image composed of lines. Once the program has completed the drawing, it will ask you if you want to clear the screen before prompting you again for iterations, space between iterations and direction, to draw more lines. Input 1 for yes, 0 or just press Enter for no.
If you want to save the image, you can grab a screenshot of the window with a snipping tool such as the one included in Microsoft Windows.
If you use a text containing one or two words, with a few well spaced repetitions, you should come up with an image resembling a sketch for an astract painting reminiscent of certain works by Futurist artists. You can grab the image with a snipping tool, save it to an image file, import it into a vector art program such as free and open source Inkscape (download from www.inkscape.org), convert the bitmap into vectors with the tracing tool, apply colored fillings and other effects you may wish to use to create an abstract painting.
